Okay, we were doing a havan and a puja and this is on the patio outside Shreemashti's
house and basically although we had satpal there, Shreemashti was leading the whole puja
and telling us what to do because we didn't have a clue and that puja set you can see
there is actually in the castle in Vellore, in the puja silva, a few years ago I couldn't
believe it. So this is a bit further on in months and we're all looking a little bit
better, a little bit clearer and wearing more proper clothes and there's Jamal there up
in the, on the, if you're looking at it top right beside Douglas and Pat has got his hidden
behind Marie, the lady in the red sari and sitting on the floor with his arm casually
on Shreemashti's knee is Pat's son Kevin who was seven at the time and wrote a very beautiful
memory of Douglas if anyone saw it online. This is at the ashram, it's the second ashram
we had actually in Finchley, the first one was in Acton, we were only there for a very
short time but here we were here for, do you know Pat, was it a year or two years, something
like that? About a year. About a year, yes. So you can see Pat and you can see Douglas
there quite clearly and Gregoire and Tony and myself and Christine and Bogdan on the
top left and this was in the meditation room and it looks like Shreemashti must have cooked
that because I don't know, I don't know, it looks like dal to me and Shreemashti often
cooked for us and showed us how to cook. So this must have been 1977, 78 maybe, 77,
78. And this, I believe this is outside Cheltenham Road or somewhere near like that but then
there's steps so it could have been one of the seminars Pat. I think it is. Isn't it
the East Hampstead seminar? Yeah, probably East Hampstead, yes, I think you're right.
On the steps afterwards. Yeah, I reckon. And there's Douglas in the green suit. Yes, he
always, when he went to India he got suits made for himself in sort of like safari style
so he was always very, very well done out, matched out in his suits. Who's the person
in that gorgeous fur coat? That's Tony. You know Tony Cooley, Tony Paneotto? Yeah, he's
still around somewhere. This looks like from the same time because there's Douglas there.
It's funny you know, since Douglas passed away I get a shock every time I see one of
the pictures of him as he was just before he went because I just keep remembering how
he looks there. There's his dark hair and there's Pat in the background. And the little
girl's called Nonny. Nonny, okay. This was in our first trip to India in January 1977
and Greg Waugh calls Pat and Tony, myself, Jane, Evan and Douglas. Douglas slightly in
the shade there. And this is when we went and visited Greg Waugh in Kathmandu where
he was working at the time. This was in his garden and we had an amazing time because
when we went to India we were there for three months and we were taken all round by the
Sai Jogis and there was always a lot of Sai Jogis and a lot of people which we hadn't
come across because in England there was just the seven of us. But when we went flew to
Kathmandu from India, sorry from Pat. Yeah, yeah. It was just who you see there and we
were staying in Greg Waugh's bungalow with Sri Mataji and she worked on us. She first
showed us how to do, oh my God, Adjuan. That's right. She got her shawl and she did the Adjuan
and we all had to go underneath her shawl to inhale it with Sri Mataji and at night
she said you must never do this and go out at night. You always had to cover your head
and stay indoors because it opened everything out. So that was our first experience of Adjuan.
And also Sri Mataji caught nits from us because we got them from going in the trains and she
was combing them out and killing the boots every time she caught one.
Is Gavin taking the photograph? No, well Jane usually took the photograph so in that case
who was it, sorry if you go back. No, Gavin's in the back there so I think it was his servant
that took it because we're all there aren't we?
What was his name, Tej or something?
Tej, something like that, yes because Marie didn't get, I don't think Marie was...
No, no she didn't join us until we went back to Mumbai.
Yeah, it was Marie, the French associate who brought Pat and I actually.
Yeah, so I think must have been his servant, yeah.
This was at Bawdy, the first time we went there in 1977 for the seminar and we went
down to the beach with Sri Mataji. She worked things out and I think we stood in the sea
didn't we Pat?
Yeah, we did all sorts of things.
You got very ill because it was so hot.
Yeah, I did and I went back to our hut and a couple of hours later there was a knock
on the door on Sri Mataji to come to see how I was. So I had to hop to a chair in my sleeping
bag and Mother came and gave me some vibrations.
Yeah, you were so ill.
I was ill quite a lot.
We had that havan where they did the thousand names and they sat us right in front of the
fire and as the fruit was going black and melting I felt like my face was going black
and melting through that and they did the string all the way around Sri Mataji's head
and all the way around each of her toes and she sat there for the whole time as close
to the fire as we were and didn't seem to be affected.
And this is when we went to Varanasi and everybody was going off the steps, the gaps and going
in the Holy River but we didn't want to join them so we hired a boat and went out in the
river and then jumped in. In some way there I was in there as well in Mysari. There's
Douglas and Pat and Gavin, I don't know who the other random person is around the corner.
And this was after, this is actually Sri Mataji's birthday in 1977. We had been to a puja, do
you remember Pat, and then we went to the cafe afterwards. So we were all blasted.
This was when Marie joined us.
Yes, that's Marie there in the sari next to me. She was from Paris and when Sri Mataji
went to Paris in 1980, just before we got married, she stayed in Marie's flat in Paris
and did the meetings from there.
And this was us waiting on the railway station for a train to come. Douglas is unperturbed
as always. I think I was reading something on how I was trying to learn Sanskrit.
I always remember him with these neckties like he's got there.
Yes, the kachif, he always did, yes, very dashing.
This is after an Ajwain session, we had to cover our heads.
Was this in... I'm not sure. I think it must have been in Gregoire's, or else that flat we stayed in.
It was either in Gregoire's place or in the one we stayed in in Mumbai.
I think it's the one we stayed in in Mumbai, honestly.
And this was in India, definitely.
Yeah, I think this was in Mumbai towards the end. Well obviously because Marie's there again.
Yes, yeah. So this is around Mother's Birthday Puja time.
That's when we went round various sites, wasn't it? Is that Pharma Raul there on the left, Pat?
A big moustache. That's Raul Bhai's son, the farm in Dulio we stayed in with Sri Masjid.
Yeah, we did go to Patipul Sikri, but before that went to a lower an agenda, I think on this bit.
Yeah, I was ill that time, missed it.
Yeah.
Yeah, and we went everywhere in our saris and kurtas.
On these beautiful steam trains.
Yeah, fantastic.
Yes, so that was the Red Fort, I think, isn't it, Pat?
I'm not sure, I think so.
Or it could have been that other fort we went to near in Agra.
Yeah, no, I think you're right.
Near, because the Taj Mahal, you could see it.
I thought the Red Fort was the one near Agra.
I thought it was in Delhi, anyway.
The Red Fort is in Delhi.
In Delhi, okay.
Yeah, I'm not sure which one that is.
Yeah, so yeah, I mean, Sri Masjid made sure that we got and saw some amazing things,
because we were there three months.
Fantastic.
Well, some of the time, yeah, a lot of the time she just sent us off.
Yeah, I think now maybe it was to give the poor Sahaj Yogis a break.
Yeah, yeah, we just travelled by ourselves.
Yeah.
Yeah, we know that the Taj Mahal is in Agra, and Fatih Pulisikwe, we went from Agra to visit it.
But there was another fort we went to, another palace in Agra that was near.
It's the one that he was in, and he looked across and built.
He was only allowed to eat channa or something, and look at his...
He was in prison there, wasn't it? The guy who built it by his son, something like that.
Yes.
It was all amazing anyway.
Yeah, it was absolutely incredible.
This was 1977.
They're asking which year it was.
1977.
March.
January to March, yeah. We were there from January to March, to Mother's birthday.
1977, yeah.
This is jumping forward a few years.
This will be in Switzerland, Guru Puja, 1984.
You can see Douglas there with Devyani.
The hatterhorn is there on the right.
Yeah, yeah.
What year did they marry?
That's the same as us, wasn't it, Krishna?
It's later than that, Pat.
Well, we were just married, but we were fixing up his flat.
I know, 81.
81, maybe, yeah.
Yeah, the next year, definitely, I think.
This is in 1984 in Zermatt, this Puja, yes.
We were all there, yeah. We were all there.
This you can recognize. This is at the farm.
Yeah.
This is Douglas and Devyani having their lunch.
We can share these pictures with you, of course.
We can put all the dates on them later on.
OK, next one.
So this is already Douglas. I can comment now about this.
Douglas in India, another one.
Douglas in India, this is the one that I'm going to share with you.
This is the one that I'm going to share with you.
In India, another one.
I think it's the wedding anniversary.
With all the Indian yogis, I think it was the Bell's day,
Douglas' Bell's day.
You can see.
When would that be, Krishna?
When did they go to India?
They went to India four years ago.
So it would be, when would that be? 2018?
January 2018.
Here is the family. One of the people, Deepak,
and his wife, they looked after Douglas in their place.
And some Indian yogis with Douglas, probably his Bell's day.
This is Deepak, his son and his wife.
And a friend, I don't know.
That's probably quite recent, isn't it?
It is a year ago or so.
And also there are some friends, Deepak and his wife and Douglas and a friend.
And this is again, there were lots of people always coming and seeing
Douglas because he was a great celebrity in Noida, you see.
So they were all coming to see him and they looked after him really well.
This is a Bell's day cake, 1981.
When he was 81.
When he passed away now, he's 83.
Okay.
Okay, this is yet another cards and flowers.
And here, I don't know where this is.
It could be in Noida.
Yeah, it is a meditation room.
Meditation room, exactly.
So he's just talking about his time with Shrimataji.
And everybody's listening to him.
So he was really very happy there.
Always well respected.
And here is his photograph, last rites.
It will be tomorrow.
And after that, he actually decided he would be cremated, not buried in the house.
This was his wish.
So it's going to happen tomorrow.
So now, if we can share some memories of Douglas, little things that we remember.
Well, I'll just talk a little bit about when we first met him.
And then obviously, we can go perhaps forward a bit.
When Pat first met him before he met Shrimataji.
So he knew him before his realization.
Yeah, he used to go to the church.
He used to go to the church.
And he used to go to the church.
Before his realization.
Yeah, he used to go to this hatha yoga lessons in Houston.
And that's where I got to know him.
I'd already seen I was living in the area.
And I'd seen him around.
And I didn't know him very well.
But after the hatha yoga lessons, we used to go to his flat for tea.
And there was also other yogis there who became yogis.
So Jane, Gavin's wife.
Christine was around and Marie.
So really, quite a few of us knew each other.
And Douglas had his flat.
And he was already a great personality in the area.
He's, you know, very gregarious and friendly with everyone.
There was a lot of, there was a whole kind of community there of New Age people who were
all eating what she must have described as concrete or something.
They're muesli.
Brown rice.
And he was, yeah, he used to go around and get all this food, all the food and do all
kinds of stuff.
And when I, when I went to first met you matter, the first person I saw was Douglas.
And I thought, you know, what's he doing here?
It's quite, quite funny, really, because I'd actually moved away some weeks, for a few
weeks, to another part of London over to Baker Street.
And during that time, the guy doing the yoga lessons had met Shrimataji at the Indian
Cultural Center.
And several of the people doing the yoga lessons with him had gone to see her as well.
And they had, then they started having meetings at his house, the yoga teacher, Mukhan Shah.
And then they moved to Gavin Brown's place.
And Maureen and I came to the last, the second or third meeting at Mukhan Shah's place.
And then another move to Gavin Brown's place.
That was September 1975.
Yeah, yeah.
So we knew, knew Douglas a bit, not that well.
But, you know, he was quite similar in many ways.
Yeah.
It was interesting, because out of those people, those hippies that Mother was meeting with
at the yoga classes, it boiled down to the six or seven of us, counting Gregor as well,
obviously.
And thinking about it, we were all very different, even though some of us were very different.
Some of us had been hippies.
And each one of us seemed to epitomize a different sort of person.
And you can see how Shrimataji, which she told us later, she was working on our us to
work out different aspects of mankind to bring them to Sahaja Yoga.
So Douglas was totally unique, I would say.
But he represented a certain sort of people who had been through a very hard time.
Such a hard time as a child.
I mean, he told us some stories, but completely detached about it.
He never used to get upset.
But I believe, Pat, is it correct, that he lost his mother in some way, and his father
was so harsh that he ran away at the age of five.
Yeah, something, it was all pretty grim.
He lived quite a lonely life, really, although he got involved in things.
He belonged to a motorcycle club and drove around on the continent and over around Algeria
or somewhere around there.
He said he went right across the Sahara on a motorbike.
Yeah, oh yeah.
And he worked in a factory for a long time.
And then gradually branched out from there.
But when we knew him, he was living in this area where a lot of hippies were squatting.
But the block where he lived, it used to be a council place, and he was the only one
who kept paying his rent and eventually got rehoused.
Yeah, he was quite smart of him, really, I think.
He had this amazing basement flat, which was like a kind of cross between a flat and a
workshop with all kinds of gadgets around.
He had his sound system rigged up all around it.
So he could listen to Capitol Radio all the time.
And he was always fixing things and fiddling with things, messing about with things.
And he was just friendly with anyone.
He had quite a lot of quite strange people who used to go through there, and they gradually
got weeded out.
And he, but from quite early on, he just recognized another, and that was it.
He just latched on to mother, and that's all he was interested in.
He wasn't like a great seeker in an intellectual way at all.
But he just had a big heart, and he just wanted to be happy in life.
And when he saw mother, that was it.
He just was always there.
Yeah, he was born in England, in answer to Rosalind.
Yeah, he just, he actually looks quite Indian, but he was born in England.
And yeah, he was, as you all know, instrumental in recording.
I mean, we, Shumashti got us to start the first meetings at Caxton Hall, and it was
him that organized all the recordings.
He bought his own machines to do it, and then eventually spent the night with the
man.
How much was it, Pat, on some?
£600 on a duplicating machine, which was a lot of money at that time.
Oh, a huge amount.
Thousands of it now.
Yeah, and he just worked all the time, copying tapes for everyone.
Yeah.
It was just this endless whirring noise of this contraption, with huge, and racks of
tapes all over the walls, you know, audio tapes.
And he just, that was his mission in life, really.
Some of the earlier tapes he recorded, I remember, you'd have bursts of various rock
groups would appear by accident, because they'd be no, he'd use them to take over.
You had to take tapes out and turn them round, so there'd be gaps.
Yeah, that's right.
And he busied himself with that.
He was very...
He was very fastidious about keeping the tapes, wasn't he?
Although the rest of his tools and things...
Oh yes, he had all these racks he'd made.
He was really spot on with them, and in good order, date order.
Oh, absolutely, yeah.
They were all special names.
Yes.
Yes, he gave a most...
I thought he was really good the way he was able to extract the essence of Mother's Talk
and label it like that.
And those labels, those names have continued down the years.
And still, you look at it and you go, oh yes, I want to hear that one.
And I remember him turning up at Caxton Hall, not only with the recording, but he was
not only with the recording equipment, but also with boxes of cassettes that we could buy.
And later on, when Shimadaji wasn't always there at Caxton Hall, he would come and he
would be the one choosing the talk to play.
And I remember asking him, how do you know which one to choose?
And as he said, he just looked at them and he just felt vibration, oh, it's this one.
And he just put that one on.
Yeah, anyway, it's not my turn yet.
It's everybody's turn.
I can say so much.
That's an important point, Felicity, because he was the first one to just follow what Mother
said and just feel vibrations while we were all trying to figure out complicated, you
know, sort of how it all fitted into the history of mankind seeking and the incarnations and
all that.
All he would do is just feel the vibrations of anything.
He didn't think about things much.
He just said he would just come out with what vibrations he felt to deal with any situation
and every situation.
Yeah, I think that was for me, that was his such an incredibly unique quality that he
just didn't think about things.
He was just in the vibrations.
The vibrations directed him and dictated, you know, he was surrendered to that.
And he was an example.
I think he was really an example in our collective at that time.
You know, as you said, someone who didn't didn't intellectualize, didn't think about
things was just there.
And it was I think, you know, it's not possible to underestimate the importance of having
somebody in the collective who literally is just being that instrument for Mother and
being there.
And, you know, you see him and you look at him and there's that wonderful example, which
we used to talk about all the time.
Maybe someone else can tell it better about receiving the phone call from that David on
the Time magazine.
And he so they had advertised.
So this must have been 79 in the Time magazine.
Time Out.
Time Out magazine.
Which was slightly different.
Sorry, it's kind of Seeking magazine, right?
And this fellow rang up and started asking Douglas about it.
And I can't remember all the details.
Maybe someone can fill them in.
But the gist of the story was that I think he was asking what this was all about.
And Douglas told us after he just started raising his Kundalini on the phone, you know,
through the phone.
He could feel the vibrations of this person on the other end of the phone.
And he started raising his Kundalini.
And then he said to him, have you been doing TM?
And the fellow said, oh, yeah, yeah, I have.
How do you know that?
And Douglas knew because Shomarajee had told us that TM people always caught on the same
three chakras, you know, left Swadhisthana, left Vishuddhi, and I think it was left Nabhi
and Douglas could feel this.
And so he didn't try to engage him in intellectual conversation.
He just showed him, oh, look, this is what this is.
You know, Kundalini comes up and you can feel it.
He actually read David Baxter's article in Yoga Today, I think it was.
I think that's what made him ring.
And then he found us in time out.
So he already was interested in a way, but he was very wary because of he was having
such a bad time in TM.
And he was very impressed by Douglas cutting on straight away and saying that.
I could sort of follow that up a little bit.
So it must have been like fall of 1979.
I sort of had a sense.
So I came into Sahaja Yoga in the spring of 79 in India.
Shall I tell my story of how I met Douglas?
No, why not?
So I got realization in India in Delhi.
There was, it was the tour of 1979 in March and there were only, there were about a dozen
Western yogis there.
And our mother was giving a week's programs every evening in this little bungalow, tent
in the garden of the bungalow in Delhi.
And I got realization.
I didn't really understand what it was all about, but I kept going back each night to
the programs.
And finally, Douglas said to me, Oh, we're all going to Borde for a seminar.
Why don't you come too?
And I thought, Oh, okay, I'll come.
And apparently other people had said, Oh no, mother, she's catching everywhere.
And mother said, no, no, she'll be all right.
I heard this later.
And Douglas just kind of took me under his wing and on the train.
He was the one that talked to me.
And at that point, she hadn't talked in English at all.
So I really didn't know what was going on.
I just knew that I felt nice.
And I felt good with these people.
And he gave me my first photo.
Like he obviously had photos on him to be used whenever necessary handed me my first
photo.
And just such a comforting, normal person, you know, that took an interest.
He just took an interest in people and helped those who needed help.
And later when I came back to England, I went to visit him in his, I went to stay with him,
must have invited me to come stay overnight.
And I was really impressed because at that time, mother told us all to get up and meditate
at four in the morning.
And as you said, Pat, he was very good with gadgets and contraptions.
And he'd set up this amazing light show alarm system that went off at four in the morning
with like bells and neon lights, you know, so you couldn't possibly not sleep through
this 4 a.m. alarm.
And, you know, every morning that this went off.
And I remembered him saying, because he obviously could see that I was that I worry, you know,
I had a lot of I worried and was a lot of left side stuff.
And he said to me, you know, like, you do you believe in the power of God?
And I said, yes, of course, of course I do.
He said, he said, well, don't you think that God has that God has all the power to correct
any mistakes you might make?
Just the way he said it, it was just like, oh, yes, that's it.
That's it.
And it just made such a huge difference to me and just change something in my my mind,
my brain that I just went, oh, I could just go above all this.
So, yeah, and interestingly, about a few years back, I've been trying to verify the date
of a talk of which I was at in in London with Shri Mataji.
And I felt that the date on it is not correct because I was there at that talk.
And I was had contacted him and he replied to me through Skype from India.
I was amazed.
Suddenly I got this call from Douglas coming from India.
I'd sent an email.
And so it was very nice.
I had this opportunity.
I'd always wanted to say thank you from my heart that he had taken care of this damaged
person and helped me such a lot.
And his eyes sort of twinkled and he said, oh, I see.
So I must have a special place in your heart then.
And I thought, yes, that's absolutely true.
You know, yes, you do, Douglas.
And I said it was, yeah, very nice.
So I hand on to other people.
Beautiful.
He helped you to come to see Mother Gershner.
Didn't he?
From Caxton Hall.
Yes, of course.
Now, now it's my turn.
Yes.
Well, you know, Douglas, with his gadgets and tapes.
So I went to the first meeting with Shri Mataji.
And when I went for the second time the next Monday, Shri Mataji wasn't there.
But Douglas was there and he was putting on the tape to play.
And I wanted really to find out how to how to how to meet Shri Mataji.
So I asked I asked him if I could have first I ask him, maybe I can help you with the tapes
and the equipment.
So he said, OK.
Then after a while, I ask him, by the way, do you know, could you give me the address
of the ashram?
He looked at me and he became quite suspicious, but he tried my Kundalini.
He put his hands above my head and then he said, all right, then.
So next, actually, this was on Sunday.
This was the same week I went to the ashram and there was Sahastrara Pudya.
And Shri Mataji asked me to wash her feet and to decorate her feet.
Then she asked me to participate in the haven with 1000 names with translations.
So by the end of the day and then there was a music program in the evening, a musician,
Indian musician came and he played.
So thank you, Douglas, because this was my I mean, it was just amazing because I was
so cleared out.
I was just walking on air when I left the ashram.
So.
Yeah, and this was thanks to Douglas checking my Kundalini.
So and to show how different he was from everyone else.
What happened when you when you are knocked on the door when you first arrived?
Don't you remember the guy who opened the door?
Oh, excuse me.
Okay.
But I don't want to mention the name, but don't mention the name.
But you see, so Douglas was so different because you see, he knows all my life story.
My husband.
So, okay.
So yes, because when I knock at the door, so I came to the I came to the ashram that
was the only seal ashram.
I know first of all, well, I see I have been lemons outside.
So I say, well, it looks interesting.
So I knock at the door.
Somebody opens the door and I said I started to chat like I normally would do.
And this person said to me, oh, gosh, I just had two foot soaks.
I had to have a failed one.
I can guess who that was.
So I was thinking, well, I couldn't quite understand, but I just felt maybe it was not
appropriate for me to to actually say anything.
But nevertheless, she asked me to participate in the project.
So you see, that was right.
And he was very much sort of in tune with the vibration.
Yeah, I was remembering with Gresner about and I hope that that Maureen you might remember,
but I remember that this was again in the fall of 79, I think that suddenly we got
this message.
I got this message that we were all to go to Douglas's flat.
And I think the message was he was cooking us all dinner, but whatever it was, we should
all go to his flat.
So we were there, most of us, the small collective in his flat.
And suddenly the door opened and Shrimataji arrived and she arrived with a birthday cake.
And and she said, and Douglas and Douglas hadn't told anyone if he had, I certainly
didn't know.
I don't think I got the impression it was a complete surprise to everyone.
And he said, Oh, mother, how did you know?
How did you know?
And she said, of course, you're my son.
I know, I know these things.
And it for me, I felt this was such a I felt mother had come especially to show people
that Douglas was special, was important.
We were all special.
But at that time, there were there were a lot of other people in the collective who
aren't here now.
And sometimes I felt this attitude that Douglas was a bit, you know, he wasn't intellectual.
So we did people didn't always respect him very well.
And yet Shrimataji came and I just felt now she's saying, you know, this is Douglas, my
son.
He is worthy of respect.
It was a very significant for me that this happened.
And Gretchen, maybe I shall read the little bit that you sent me Gretchen from Mother's
Talk, which was very sweet.
And she's this.
So this is Mother's words.
And she said, like we had one Douglas Fry with us.
And I suddenly asked him, what about your birthday?
He was taken aback.
He didn't know he's sitting here.
He didn't know how I knew that his birthday was there.
And he really had a rebirth from the life he had.
And when I said, he said, how do you know, mother?
I said, I know about your birthday.
And I went to his house and I saw him and I was so overjoyed to see him settle down.
It is amazing how your seed grows and how fragrant you become.
And I thought that little speech is so typical of Srimataji.
How she, we would have these programs at Caxton Hall and many people would come and get realization.
And she wouldn't, you wouldn't know who she would pay attention to.
Like sometimes, you know, like it could be like the person in the suit looking very normal
and everything, and she could completely ignore him.
And one time there was this lady came like a bag lady, a homeless lady.
And I remember people kind of like not really wanting to be with her or spend time.
And after she'd left, mother said something like,
oh, you don't know what a deep soul, you know, what a special soul.
And I really felt she taught us not to judge people on the surface.
And she, of course, knew who everyone was inside.
And she was very proud of those who came up from nothing.
And she, I can remember because I had a, you know, a lot of us in those early days had
difficulties in their chakras and I had very weak left side.
And I remember her once turning and saying, and look at Felicity, see how she's come up.
You know, she was just, she was just so proud that, you know, that her vibrations and everything.
And I remember her saying about another yogi, you know, if she just has to stick on,
she sticks on, she'll be fine.
She'll be fine.
You know, it was very, very gracious, you know, so much kindness and compassion.
And I felt years later we were doing programs with Iranian ladies and they were somehow very
grateful that we were doing programs.
And they kept trying to say to me, oh, you know, you're so special, you're this and that.
And I kept feeling, no, I'm not.
But I felt like everything in me, I had grown and changed.
And that just everything in my being is because of Shomataji is because of absorbing all that
beauty and that grace.
And from being with her, she showed us how to be an enlightened human being, a compassionate
human being.
And these little stories that, you know, we share today, each one of those, you know,
shows her.
And I think even now in our lives when Mother isn't here in her physical form, and you hear
this from so many newer yogis, how they feel her presence and her grace and compassion
in their lives.
But I really, I always liked the birthday story one.
I thought that was, and she came with a cake.
She came with a birthday cake.
Were you there, Maureen?
Yeah, I believe I was, yes.
Remembering.
And Marilyn, was Marilyn.
Marilyn must have some stories about that.
Yes, I do.
I want to talk about seeing Douglas's Halo, because on that first seminar he captured
Tarp, and I knew him as the guy in the green suit, because I was very shy.
And I just used to watch him.
He would say to someone, how are you?
Or should I be asking, how am I?
Some things like that.
And we're all sitting out on the lawn.
Mother had said that all these, you know, as yogis, perhaps you look at the sun.
You can actually stare straight at the sun.
We have that power as yogis.
But I knew I couldn't, because I couldn't really cope with the sun in my face.
I just couldn't.
So everyone started to look at the sun, but I was looking at everybody else rather than
looking at the sun.
And I looked it over at the guy in the green suit, Douglas.
And there was a sun, there was like a golden globe all around his head as he was watching
the sun.
And it wasn't anything on my retina, because I looked away.
I looked here, I looked there, I looked back, and there was a golden globe around Douglas's
head.
And I looked somewhere else, and I looked, and in the end I said to Bart, who was near
me, Bart, look, the guy in the green suit.
And there was a golden halo all around him.
And Bart was saying, I can't see anything.
And so I was still, it was there for so long.
And all the time that Douglas was looking at the sun, there was this golden globe.
And I was thinking, is that his halo?
Or did she come down to greet him?
I mean, what's it so powerful?
And it was, I mean, fast forward seven years later, we were sitting around the table at
Hounslow, and I told Douglas what I'd seen.
And in his most sweet humble way, he said, oh, yeah, that would have been my ego.
I was a lot in my ego in those days.
Don't try to make me look special, you know.
Very sweet.
Very, very expensive, very lovely Douglas.
I just wanted to say that we have, do we have Derek because he was going to speak to tonight?
And I can't see.
Yeah, yeah, I'm here.
Let me just, yes.
You can see our stories.
Yeah.
So my first time in Chelsea Road, I, last Saturday, they asked me to tell some stories
at Flood Street.
So I'll just repeat some of those stories.
So when I was in Chelsea Road, I discovered that Douglas was the one you could get tapes
from.
And I just bought an encyclopedia dictionary, Hindu encyclopedia dictionary, because I listened
to Bristol Sergio Gies had given me some talks of dramaturgy.
And there was lots of words which I couldn't understand.
So I got this book, and then I spoke to Douglas, and I said, oh, can I have a tape for each
chakra?
As I said, there's seven chakras.
We don't, we didn't have all the literature, which we have now.
So he was very quick and efficient.
He gave me all the tapes, one for each chakra, I listened to those.
And what I discovered is that I was also interested in all that technical equipment and talks
and stuff like that.
And what people don't realize is that even just to do the recordings, you have to maintain
the equipment, clean the heads.
It's not just you buy a cassette and put, you know, something in.
And I remember Ballas here at the moment being in the Derby ashram afterwards.
And they used to, the people doing all that type of stuff used to be copying tapes with
the fast high speed copier and sending them all around the world.
And I remember the Swiss used to be getting orders sent in.
So he made sure, as well as naming them, he made, he did that.
And also people don't know that he made a list, which we can post out later on of all
the tapes he made and copied.
And I've been trying to continue his legacy because there's quite a few of the, Chumash
actually gave over 500 talks in England.
And we've just got over, there's a hundred like missing of those early talks.
So we're trying to track them down.
But because Douglas named them all, we've got a good starting point.
So we know that they're in people's houses.
So we hope if anyone wants to get involved with that, let me know after.
The other thing is when we went on the first India, one of the first tours I went on, we
bought lots of equipment to donate to the Indian Sahaja Yogis so that they could also
carry on the same thing.
So he had that forward vision.
Derek, when would that have been?
That was, this was in the early eighties, 82, 83, something like that, where Douglas
bought equipment to donate to Indian Sahaja Yoga, because there was more than one place
and the equipment was quite expensive.
So this was before Paul Winter brought the BBC quality cameras.
So to have somebody with that foresight was just amazing.
And I remember being in Exeter, just to tell a story, and we had, we were waiting for Srimath
we were waiting for Srimathji to appear on the TV.
She went to the TV station and we're all there waiting for it to come on the TV.
And some tea, hot tea got spilled on Douglas and he didn't, it was like, nothing was, he
didn't react at all.
He was just, you know, anyone else would be like, ah, what's going on?
He was just completely unfazed by anything and nothing was ever too much trouble.
And I just remembered that was then I think 82, 83 went to Exeter.
And I remember later on when I was at the castle, people don't realise the sensitivity
what we're talking about is he could feel at the time I remember in the eighties, every
time a false guru came to London, Srimathji would give different mantras, different techniques
to use, because there's a talk, there's several talks where she said there was 16 rakshasas
who came along.
So every time someone came, but Douglas had like memorised everything.
So as soon as we were at a public programme or anywhere, he knew exactly what to do.
So like, clear somebody out and work on somebody and help.
And I remember being in Cabela, and we had somebody who wouldn't leave the castle.
And we, we managed to persuade Douglas to take him back to England, because he said,
I can't fly, and he's living in America.
And then Douglas said to him, oh, do you smoke?
Do you smoke?
He said yes.
And he said, could you travel from Cabela to England without smoking?
And the person said no.
So he said, you better take all your luggage out of my Land Rover.
So he wasn't going to tolerate any anything.
He was quite straightforward.
So and also, I remember him running the meeting with Mio in Walthamstow for, I don't know,
years and years, used to go set it all up.
So he must have been given realisation to thousands of people over the years.
And also he and giving lifts to everybody, and making sure everybody was was well and
looked after.
So that's it.
I see we have Bala and Kay.
Yes.
They want to say something.
Yeah, that's mine finished.
Lovely.
Bala, you're going to speak up?
If they want to say something, but if not.
Okay.
Kay is there.
What about Patricia?
I saw Patricia.
She says she can't speak.
She can hear us and see us, but she can't speak.
But I can read the tribute now at the end.
I can read the tribute of the family of Deepak, whose family, he and his family looked after
Douglas for the last four years.
And he, you can see also very, very much from the heart, and it's very much really like
Douglas really, Deepak, just feeling so grateful to the Divine for bringing Douglas and Devyani
to their house.
Okay, so I start reading the tribute.
Okay, I just so you can just one second.
Okay.
Even.
Okay, I first read the tribute and then we can do maybe somebody wants to say something
else.
Even before we were told that we had been chosen to take care of Mr. Douglas Fry and
his wife Devyani Fry, who are shifting to India from the UK.
Maybe I can wait a minute so you can see me reading it because
I can see Felicity.
I can see myself.
So can you see me reading?
We can see you.
You can see me.
Okay.
You can see now, Gresha, now you put your camera back on.
Sure, sure.
Okay.
So, okay.
So again, I say even before we were told that we had been chosen to take care of Mr. Douglas
and his wife, Mr. Devyani Fry, who are shifting to India from the UK.
My wife, Parul, had started getting in a voice.
Be prepared.
A very big responsibility is coming to you.
I also had a dream in which Sri Nirmal Ganesha came on White House and ordered me to do some
work for him.
I went to do the work without thinking.
And when I came back, he had left a message of love for us.
That's what Deepak is saying.
Before and after the arrival, when we got to know that Douglas and his wife were in
and his wife wanted to come to India and stay with us in the greater Noida, we felt tremendous
vibrations.
And even without knowing much about them, we sent a message to them that they were most
welcome to come and stay with us for as long as they wished.
On the day of the arrival in India, that was on 18th of January, 2018, I was in
my office and my wife called me to tell me that Douglas and Devyani, he calls them Douglas
uncle and Devyani auntie, just arrived at home.
I immediately left my office.
Throughout my journey back home, I had been getting tremendous vibrations.
When I met them at the house, we felt as if all Ganas had arrived with them in the form
of vibrations.
Devyani auntie brought a teddy with herself from UK to India.
When we asked her teddy's name, she replied, this is my Deepak.
And of course, this man's name is also Deepak, which she didn't actually know.
Since that moment, by grace of Shrimataji, I felt strong bonding in my soul with both
of them through these divine vibrations.
So Shrimataji had already made a connection between them and us, a connection that we
have always felt since then.
Staying with them for more than four years, we really think our holy mother forever, that
she chose us to look after them.
Douglas, Papa and Devyani auntie are not only Sahaj Yogis, but we can say for sure that
they are the Ganas of Shri Adishakti.
They were sent here by Shrimataji just for some work to be done as per her will.
Through them, Shrimataji taught us small, small things and helped us grow deeper and
deeper in Sahaja Yoga meditation.
For example, whenever we or anybody talked to them, they answered through vibrations
only and it always worked out.
We saw their intense love for us and also the power of detachment.
They always enjoyed the company of Sahaja Yogis and liked to give joy to everyone.
They were always demonstrating by personal example that a yogi should be like that.
Every day, Douglas and Devyani taught us all kinds of Shrimataji's love and lessons.
I was amazed to find that through the divine attention and guidance of Shrimataji, all
the kind of official work relating to obtaining visa, etc., for uncle and auntie from the
government departments were completed without any hassle.
Shrimataji had always been guiding me with proper directions, knowledge through divine
attention.
It was also amazing.
It was teamwork.
Since the year 2019 onwards, Shrimataji involved Mona Barya from UK and together we have been
working day and night to take care of Douglas and Devyani.
And the joint work has been going on amazingly.
Without Shrimataji's guidance and blessings of strength, patience and of course, vibrations,
it could not have been possible.
Interestingly, everything has been working out as per the wishes of Douglas's Papa.
We have been witnessing for the last more than four years that whatever he wished for,
Shrimataji has worked out perfectly.
That shows that he was always in the attention of Shri Adi Shakti.
Thanks to Shrimataji again and again.
Also thanks to our loving Douglas and Devyani auntie for everything.
This is from Deepak.
Beautiful.
It's fantastic that they managed to end their days there instead of in a home in London,
separated.
It was their fate.
Absolutely.
And what the courage, what an aversion.
It's a very beautiful experience.
So what the courage, what an adventurous nature of Douglas to run away from India in a wheelchair
to India to stay with somebody he didn't know.
And the thing is that, but also it's such an amazing, we are very grateful.
We English yogis are very grateful to all the yogis in Noida for giving love and care
to Douglas and Devyani.
It's just unbelievable what they have done for them.
Do you think you could post some kind of contact that we could, those of us who would like
could just write to thank them?
To show how much we appreciate on the group.
Maybe they already got all your memories that you wrote on community.
I compiled everything.
I sent it to them.
Yes.
And I'm also saying, and you can write to them.
I will be very happy to, I mean, if you send me everything with your names, I can send
I can forward to Deepak who is looking after everything.
And I'm in touch with Bhushan as well because he's looking after the preparations.
As we are talking somehow, it feels a little different when he, when we first heard and
we started writing the memories, I felt so deeply, such a unique, great soul that mother
had sent to us was leaving now at the end, you know, is gone and will leave a hole, but
it's his time.
Yeah.
Somebody is writing saying, I have a video of Douglas 75th.
And Julie.
Okay.
Now that you're unmuted, do you have any memories that you'd like to share?
Please unmute it.
Okay.
Yeah.
Did Julie, did Julie, Julie Grimshaw had a lot of contact with, you know, helped with
Douglas and his affairs.
Does she have any stories that she would like to share?
Myriad.
It's actually kind of interesting because, Douglas introduced me to snooker.
I'm watching snooker on the TV and we both enjoyed watching Ronnie O'Sullivan.
And he was explaining to me what had happened with mother in, when McEnroe was doing Wimbledon.
Mother told us to watch events that were watched by millions of people because we could send
our vibrations back through the TV.
And so Douglas was carrying on this tradition with the snooker.
And the day before I heard that he'd passed, I just had a really strong desire to watch
some snooker like we used to.
And it was kind of like, he was just sort of saying, you know, bye-bye and don't forget
the snooker.
But yes, I mean, I, I, I took him to India with Barry.
I was Devyani's assistant and Barry was Douglas's assistant because we only found one airline
that would take them without a doctor's certificate because they were both so very poorly and
frail.
And Steve managed to find somewhere that would take them without any kind of doctor's approval.
And we, we were all quite apprehensive about what would, I mean, we knew we were in mother's
care, but what would happen when we got to India and we made Steve promise not to tell the
social services until we landed in India.
And Steve did.
And they were very shocked and they were they rang up Deepak as well to find out.
But it was funny without all this, one knew the turmoil and people who wanted to act and
it was going on, but it's like we were, we were in, in the bubble of vibrations and we
just weren't, we were just watching it, but it was, it was rather fun.
And then when, when we landed, we had two big jeeps.
My Iraqi brother in Delhi, Yogesh had already been down to Noida to meet Deepak and Parul.
Well, he, he, he actually went to see if Douglas could stay in the hospital and he met up with
the collective and he, he rang up and he said, oh, the vibrations were really good for this
couple to look after Douglas and Devyani.
And they, they want to take in their, their making room in their house and everything.
And it just all felt so wonderful and so easy flowing that we just, we just went and with
all the dramas going on outside the bubble it was, it was really quite plain sailing.
And we were, we were in Deepak's house within a couple of hours of landing.
So it all, it all went through very well.
I think if I can just say one thing that always struck me about Douglas was that
he never shied away from so-called danger.
You know, I think he came down to Brighton and somebody had said to him, oh, you don't
want to go up on that hill.
That's where all the witches have their things.
And this is, so of course, we've got the Land Rover out and everybody had to go up there
and we did a pooja on top of this hill.
And another thing that happened was that Mother had said to us to go to all these other religious
places and talk to the people, you know, because they are seeking, they're just not looking
in the right place.
And he took us round to the Buddhists, Ashram, and talked to them about Shri Mataji and how
she had told us about Buddha.
And they were rather taken aback and they sort of said, thank you very much and goodbye.
But the little details Douglas used to remember, like he said, I'm just going to go and put
a daffodil on Buddha's feet.
And he just went into their meditation room and did just that.
So he's very, very brave, very brave.
He never let any negative thoughts come to him.
He never let any negative thoughts in himself and never let them affect anything around
at all.
So, yeah, I think I've said quite a lot.
Lovely.
I just wanted to add to what Jill just said.
Douglas always used to, when people were sick, they were seriously ill.
He would just go and welcome them, you know.
And he could go to hospitals, he could go because he felt that he had these vibrations
and he has to share them.
So it was quite remarkable.
And for that, I was always amazed by him because he was not afraid of anything.
He was not afraid of catching.
He just wanted to give.
And as Shimataji said, if you give with love, you will never get affected by anything.
Yeah, yeah, that's it.
Yeah.
So I think we just conclude tonight.
Can you see the videos?
Can I show them through?
I'm just thinking the one where Douglas says thank you for his 70th birthday.
You want to show them now?
I could.
Well, if I can do, I've got them all lined up.
Jillian, my dear, it could take a little bit of faffing around.
I don't know if you'd like to show them at the beginning of next month.
Would that be possible?
And then we can organize it with you beforehand.
Okay, yeah, that's fine.
Yeah, lovely.
Yeah, we just, I think we just end with, if anybody wanted to say something, but I just
would like to say I'm really pleased that we have gathered together to remember Douglas.
I think she would be overjoyed like this.
And he's overjoyed.
I feel like I want to cry.
He would have a good laugh.
You know, I had an email from Sia in America about this.
And she said she'd been reading the lovely comments people made.
But she said it would be nice if people said things like that when people are still alive.
So it was an interesting thing.
If we had all sent Douglas these messages before.
I was very happy I had that.
That's why I really wanted to talk to him.
I am very conscious of that nowadays.
And I really make an effort to say these things that are in my heart so that when people go,
you Yeah, why not?
No regrets.
Maybe we should make a list of people that we can say nice things about.
Stop the oldest and go down the line.